 Python is a high-level, general-purpose programming language . Its design philosophy emphasizes code readability with the use of significant indentation via the off-side rule . It supports multiple programming paradigms, including structured (particularly procedural), object-oriented and functional programming .  Python is a successor to the ABC programming language, inspired by SETL . Its implementation began in December 1989 in the Netherlands . Python 2.0 was released on 16 October 2000, with many major new features such as list comprehensions, cycle-detecting garbage collection .  Python 2.7's end-of-life was initially set for 2015, then postponed to 2020 out of concern that a large body of existing code could not easily be forward-ported to Python 3 . Currently only 3.7 and later are supported .  Python is a multi-paradigm programming language . Object-oriented programming and structured programming are fully supported . Notable changes from 3.10 include increased program execution speed and improved error reporting .  Rather than building all of its functionality into its core, Python was designed to be highly extensible via modules . This compact modularity has made it particularly popular as a means of adding programmable interfaces to existing applications . Its core philosophy is summarized in the document The Zen of Python .  Python's developers strive to avoid premature optimization and reject patches to non-critical parts of the CPython reference implementation that would offer marginal increases in speed at the cost of clarity . When speed is important, a Python programmer can move time-critical functions to extension modules written in languages such as C; or use PyPy, a just-in-time compiler .  "Pythonic" code may use Python idioms well, be natural or show fluency in the language, or conform with Python's minimalist philosophy . Code that is difficult to understand or reads like a rough transcription from another language is called unpythonic .  In Python, a variable name is a generic reference holder without a fixed data type; however, it always refers to some object with a type . This is called dynamic typing in contrast to statically-typed languages, where each variable may contain only a value of a certain type . The recommended indent size is four spaces .  In Python, a distinction between expressions and statements is rigidly enforced . From Python 2.5 on, it is possible to pass data back into a generator function . From version 3.3, it can be passed through multiple stack levels .  Python uses duck typing and has typed objects but untyped variable names . Python also provides methods, often called dunder methods, to allow user-defined classes to modify how they are handled by native operations including length, comparison, in arithmetic operations and type conversion . Python is strongly typed, forbidding operations that are not well-defined .  Python allows programmers to define their own types using classes, most often used for object-oriented programming . New instances of classes are constructed by calling the class, and the classes are instances of the metaclass type (itself an instance of itself) before version 3.0 .  The division between integers produces floating-point results . In Python terms, / is true division (or simply division), and // is floor division . / before version 3.0 is classic division .  Python uses arbitrary-precision arithmetic for all integer operations . The Decimal type/class in the decimal module provides decimal floating-point numbers to a pre-defined arbitrary precision and several rounding modes . The Fraction class in the fractions module provides arbitrary precision for rational numbers . Python 3 uses round to even: round(1.5) and round(2) both produce 2 .  Python's large standard library provides tools suited to many tasks and is commonly cited as one of its greatest strengths . It is frequently used as a scientific scripting language to aid in problems such as numerical data processing and manipulation . For Internet-facing applications, many standard formats and protocols such as MIME and HTTP are supported .  The Python Package Index (PyPI), the official repository for third-party Python software, contains over 415,000[121] packages with a wide range of functionality . Most of the standard library is cross-platform Python code, only a few modules need altering or rewriting for variant implementations .  CPython is the reference implementation of Python . It is written in C, meeting the C89 standard (Python 3.11 uses C11[123] with several select C99 features . It compiles Python programs into an intermediate bytecode which is then executed by its virtual machine .  Python's performance compared to other programming languages is benchmarked by The Computer Language Benchmarks Game . Python's development is conducted largely through the Python Enhancement Proposal (PEP) process, the primary mechanism for proposing major new features .  CPython's public releases come in three types, distinguished by which part of the version number is incremented: alpha, beta, and release-candidates . The mailing list python-dev is the primary forum for language's development .  Python's name is derived from the British comedy group Monty Python . The major academic conference on Python is PyCon. There are special Python mentoring programs, such as Pyladies. de by running the large unit test suite during development .  Python has consistently ranked in the top ten most popular programming languages in the TIOBE Programming Community Index . It was selected Programming Language of the Year (for "the highest rise in ratings in a year") in 2007, 2010, 2018, and 2020 (the only language to have done so four times)  Large organizations that use Python include Wikipedia, Google, Yahoo! and CERN . Reddit was written mostly in Python . Python can serve as a scripting language for web applications, e.g., via mod_wsgi for Apache webserver .  Python is commonly used in artificial intelligence projects and machine learning projects with the help of libraries like TensorFlow, Keras, Pytorch, and scikit-learn . SageMath is a computer algebra system with a notebook interface programmable in Python . As a scripting language with a modular architecture, simple syntax, and rich text processing tools, Python is often used for natural language processing .  Python has been used in finite element method software such as Abaqus, 3D parametric modelers like FreeCAD and 3D animation packages such as 3ds Max, Blender, Cinema 4D, Lightwave, Houdini, Maya, modo, MotionBuilder, Softimage, the visual effects compositor Nuke, 2D imaging programs like GIMP and Inkscape . Esri promotes Python as the best choice for writing scripts in ArcGIS .  Python is used extensively in the information security industry, including in exploit development . The Raspberry Pi single-board computer project has adopted Python as its main user-programming language . Python's development practices have also been emulated by other languages .  in Tcl, Erlang, Tcl and Erlang languages, languages such as Swift and Tcl . The language has been used in languages like Tcl[219] Erlang and Swift, among others . Swift is the first language language to be written in Swift . 